Shraddha Batra

Luchang Wang, words are insufficient to describe how much of a brilliant, selfless, and genuine person you were. You never ceased to amaze me with your effortless ability to make anyone smile no matter how difficult of a day they were having, and I’m so thankful for the many times you were there throughout high school. You were by far one of the most caring, humble, and down-to-earth individuals I have met. I cannot fathom what you were going through, but I have always admired your strength and hope you are at peace now. The world has lost someone incredibly special; you have touched and inspired so many of us who knew you. Rest in peace Luchang, you will be greatly missed. You left too soon, we love you. 

Kristina Monakhova 

Rest in peace Luchang Wang. You were brilliant, unique, and destined for great things. I only knew you for a brief 8 weeks during a high school summer science program, but in that time you touched my life and the lives of all those around you with your kindness, sense of adventure, and enthusiasm for life. Thank you for the fond memories. You were truly an incredible person.

Erin Marshall

just heard the terrible news of Luchang Wang's passing. i only knew you in my junior year of cross country, but this news has upset me so much. you were so genuinely kind and sweet to everyone you met no matter what. you affected everyone you ever met, even people that weren't that close to you, in a positive way even if you think you didn't. this is just so heartbreaking.

Eesha Patel

Luchang, I remember those days I spent with you in music theory. Coming to class and seeing you made my day. You were so sweet, caring and genuine. Your smile used to light up the class room. And you always knew how to make me smile and help me in any way you could. I remember how I would always call you and bother you at random times, and you would answer the phone sweetly and go out of your way to help me or make my day. I will really miss you. Rest in peace Luchang.

Yinka Taiwo

My condolences go to the family and friends of Luchang Wang. I feel blessed to have known and met her this past summer at Yale. She was a very brilliant, responsible and kind lady.Her passing brings sadness but I know she rests in eternal peace now.

Ian Gonzalez

There are no words to express the sense of loss I'm feeling right now, but I'll try anyway. I didn't know Luchang Wang for very long, but she was, without a doubt, one of the kindest, funniest, and most intelligent people I have ever had the privilege to meet. Despite her constant struggle, she had an uncanny ability to understand and address the pain of others.
On Saturday, one of the last times I saw her alive, she brought me a bag full of hand warmers (that I never asked for) because she knew that my hands get absurdly cold in the winter. She told me that I needed them more than she did, so it was only logical that I should have them instead of her. It was a simple gesture, but one that I think captures the kind of person she was and the kind of person we should all try to be.
Her death was a senseless tragedy, and my heart goes out to her family members, who must be feeling shock and horror that dwarf my own.

Nicole Criner

Luchang was a cross country teammate in high school and a very sweet and genuine person. So sad to hear.

Tricia Shi

You were supposed to visit again when it wasn't raining!
You left too soon. I miss you.

Catie Steubing

Luchang, you were one of the most giving and thoughtful people I've ever met. When you asked how I was, the kind interest in your eyes intimated that you truly meant it. I did not know the depths of your struggle, but I'm endlessly grateful to have known the depths of your compassion.
Though you were quiet, and spent more time listening than speaking, you always made an impression. I remember the first time I met you, down in the Silliman buttery a few Septembers ago. You were flipping determinedly through flash cards, simultaneously friendly and focused, and I remember thinking, "Wow, so this is what a Yalie is supposed to be." Insecure and unsure, I was constantly looking around for evidence of how I was supposed to be during my four years here. Today, I stand by my initial assessment, but it's more than that. You're what a Yalie is supposed to be (passionate, brilliant, engaged), but you're also what every person is supposed to be (kind, self-effacing, open). I think we could all benefit from being a little bit more like you.
I also remember the last time I saw you, the night before last. This exchange had become normalized, and there was no extended conversation, only traded hellos. I detected a flatness in your normally upbeat, interested voice, but I shrugged it off as a bad day. For that, I'm sorry. I'm not nearly egotistical enough to think that I could have changed things, but I'm still sorry. I thank you for your presence, and I hope you've found the peace you so deserve.

Amanda Manorot

Today Luchang Wang, one of the brightest and sweetest people I had the pleasure of learning with and being inspired by during my time at Central Academy passed away.

Allison Kaiser

Today my friend Luchang took her life. It's hard to imagine the pain her depression put her through, and that someone so smart, beautiful, and inspiring could feel so terribly. I hope she can be at peace now.
Always know that you're loved, and never be afraid to talk to a friend.

Jasmine Au

Dear Luchang Wang,
You are and will always be one of the brightest, kindest, girls I have ever met. You were so active in high school and always impressed everyone with your brains but never flaunted it. You were always so interested in learning new things, even when it was my new Magic the Gathering hobby (luckily you never got sucked into it like our other friends!). Your innocence just made me smile and think there was nothing wrong with the world. I regret so much not making more time for our mini high school reunions with our friends.
Luchang, you'll always be remembered. Rest in peace.

 Katy Stites

Today an acquaintance from my high school took her life. I didn't know Luchang Wang well, but I do know she was a loving and bright young woman who suffered from depression, and that she will be deeply missed. I feel like I need to share this with my other friends and acquaintances. If you are suffering please don't wait to ask for help, or be afraid to tell people you care about. If you love someone, show them, while you still can.

Andrew Sherlock

Today, I lost one of the dearest friends that I have ever had the privilege to know and love. I cannot find the words to describe Luchang Wang – adjectives like “compassionate” or “brilliant” fall pitifully short. It’s strange, since even five minutes in her company would be enough time to see some of her truest qualities. On a walk in the depths of winter, Luchang would certainly offer you her coat if you coughed even once. Later, you might find a bag of cough drops surreptitiously tucked into your pocket. There would be no note, no ceremony – but she never let you forget that your cares were hers, and her strength was yours. (If she read that last bit, she’d laugh at me and call me “too cinematic.” That was Luchang, though.) I knew her for much longer than five minutes; about five years, in fact. We met briefly at a summer math camp in California, and then grew close remotely during high school. She never failed to have my back during many troubled times, regardless of the distance. But it was only in more recent years – at Yale and elsewhere – that we really became friends.
It’s too tough to share those memories now, and too soon. But I’d like you all to know this: I’m proud and grateful to have been so tight with Luchang. More than that, I am proud of her. In life, it is rare to meet someone with real courage. Not the kind in books or movies – because true valor is far beyond words, like her. For Luchang, every day was a struggle, with little respite to be found. Yet she still lived, and fought to live, reveling in acts of kindness for friend and stranger alike. My life is inexpressibly better because of her, and it will never be the same without her. Rest in peace, Luchang. I love you too. I will not worry anymore; you are safe now.

Lansing Wei

It's difficult for me to piece together a meaningful statement at a time like this.
I knew you for a long time, and we all ate in the same lunch group, but I never took the time to really try and get to know you, I don't feel like, and now that I can't do it anymore I feel like I've done you a disservice. There was something about you that made you someone I wanted to talk to but who I never really managed to. I looked up to you and your skills, the work you put into everything, and your seemingly magical ability to reason through problems.
You were a person who I looked forward to seeing every day, even if just as a passing hello. You were someone who captured my attention and made me notice you when you spoke. It was inspiring to be around you, to know what you existed and were doing things. Things that I didn't think I could match, but things that I would try to do anyway. I can't imagine what life would have been like having never known you, but I wouldn't be where I am now.
I guess this would mean I'm thanking you, but you were more than just that. I don't know what or how, but your life was defined by more than the impact you had on me. It was something far greater, more complex, and more beautiful than I can know, and was something that deserved to be cared about and understood and treated with respect. I'm not sure I did that, and for what it's worth I'm sorry.
I'll miss you, Luchang Wang.

Will Crichton

Today, my friend Luchang took her own life. She was one of the brightest people I've ever known--she owned math competitions, excelled at science bowl, and was my stellar debate partner for much of my Public Forum career. More importantly, she was an incredibly kind and selfless soul. Luchang joined the Effective Altruists in order to give back anything she could to help the disadvantaged.
I talked with Luchang on Skype a month ago for some two hours, and she looked to have a new lead on life. She was excited to get back to Yale and meet more people (and equally unexcited to be in Ohio, as one would expect) and to explore a life unlike anything she could find back in Iowa. I cannot truly articulate Luchang's insatiable curiosity, how she always wanted to know more about academics, people, and ideas. We would discuss case ideas for debate and she would speak so rapidly the words would jumble together, trying to impart on me the ideas flying through her head at a mile a minute. This is the Luchang I knew and the Luchang who brought so much happiness to everyone around her.
However, a lot can change, and a lot can hide underneath the surface of what we tell people. Luchang struggled with depression and other issues that many people you and I know face today. If you know someone is struggling, or even if someone's just having a bad day, be a positive force. Show them a smile, play a video game with them, it doesn't matter. I refuse to believe that it has to be this way, but that change starts with all of us.
Today, a light in this world was extinguished. Rest in peace, Luchang. You will be missed.

Mike Meyering

Rest in peace, Luchang Wang. Your life was far too short, but, as all astronomers know, the shortest-lived stars are by far the brightest. Though the time I knew you well was somewhat limited, I will never forget how you touched my life and those of many people around me. I never really knew that you were continuing to struggle with depression as I knew you had in the past, but now that I have a concept of what you were going through, it makes the support I saw you give to others who suffered through depression and anxiety mean even more. I don't think I've met a more selfless human being in my life, and I wish that we could have, like you did for so many others, given you the support that you needed in your own struggles. It was a privilege to have known you, and I wish that you had not been taken by such a terrible illness. Thank you for all you did.

Stephen Wahlig

Even though I first knew you as the young, insanely smart girl in my math classes, I'll always especially remember you for what a genuinely kind, thoughtful, and supportive person you are

Katy Roat

It's always sad when someone takes their own life, especially someone as young, bright, friendly, creative, and hard-working as Luchang Wang. Thank you for all the bright smiles, witty remarks, quirky jokes, homework help, and creative ideas you gave during your time here. We'll miss you.

Karina Foster-Middleton

Thank you for being so kind when I was in such a terrible place. I will never forget your generosity and brightness. I am so sorry you're gone. You will be sorely, sorely missed.

 Lina Xing

I miss you and love you. 

Mahir Rahman

I know I don't have to apologize, Luchang, but I'm sorry nonetheless. I'm sorry I heard the news too late, I'm sorry you didn't get the time you needed, and I'm sorry you didn't see any other solution to these issues. My greatest condolences to the Wang family and all those deeply effected by the recent news. You will be missed. 
[added later] Luchang was a weird person. From the moment we first met, our conversation would start and stop on a random topic. They ranged from silly superheroes to fascinating food and the conversation would always seem fluid. Even without trying to get to know each other, I think we learned about each other's character in a more intriguing light. She cared about things on a deeper level, which would become evident even on the little things that would sprout in conversation. 
Luchang, I think there really are few like you that could make little things mean so much.I heard the news late and it felt terrible to read you say you just did not have the time you needed and this was the best solution. Questioning your decision is something you wouldn't want so I hope you are free and at peace now. Please know that we will miss you, but we will keep on the good fight for you.

Brianna Petersen

Luchang Wang, I remember your beautiful smile, contagious laugh, and the way you brought joy to any room. You are loved, and I know so many people that feel blessed to have known you. Please remember that, remember that you are so loved.

Yiran Zhang

Today, one of my best childhood friends from Ames, Iowa passed away. Depression is a devastating, unfair thing. It can hurt even the most kind-hearted, most generous, most promising and brilliant among us. Almost as a cruel coincidence, the unexpected news came right after I had finished reading scientific journal papers about neurobiological causes and treatments for depression. It's easy to become detached when burying oneself in signal transduction pathways and cAMP receptors and serotonin reuptake, and it's easy to forget that people are more than biochemical processes--that their stories, their dreams, their lives go beyond simple scientific cause-and-effect relations. But, it is extremely hard to accept the painful sense of loss and emptiness that suicide leaves in its wake. Luchang was the sister I never had; we shared classrooms, secrets, piano recitals, and many blithe, sun-dappled memories. I know that wherever you are now, you are shining brightly and bringing joy to those around you, just like the beautiful person I grew up with. You have irrevocably touched my life and the lives of countless others. Luchang, sweet girl, I miss you and love you so much.

Jeff Hepburn

Luchang, you were one of my brightest students. You always had a new question to follow up a previous question. You were also very charismatic and energetic. It was an absolute delight knowing you in class and outside of class in Science Bowl. The world is a much dimmer place with you gone. Thank you for the brief time I knew you. You will be deeply missed.

Nick Dimenstein

I remember the bus rides back from Central when we used to whistle in harmony, driving everyone around us insane. I can't even remember why we did it, or how it started, but I do remember what an amazing person you were. Incredibly smart but still down to earth, so caring, and so passionate about everything you were involved in. I know we fell out of touch after graduating, but it still breaks my heart that you're gone. I hope you have found peace, wherever you are now.

Alex Kramer

One of my friends, Luchang Wang, took her own life today. Luchang and I first met when I was in junior high, where she massively outperformed older students (including me) in math competitions. Fast forward to high school; we both were on the debate team, and after I graduated, I was one of her debate coaches. She even took an undergraduate math class with me before she graduated high school. We haven't really talked in the last couple of years, but when we did, she always seemed relatively positive about her time at Yale.
I've (re)posted a picture of some of the members of the Valley High School debate team (Luchang is in the first row, on the right), taken almost exactly 5 years ago in front of the Golden Gate Bridge before the Stanford debate tournament. This is the Luchang I know and remember; an incredibly intelligent person with a great (albeit quirky) sense of humor, who would always go out of her way to help others. It's absolutely heartbreaking that academics -- which was always one of the things that she cared about the most -- would eventually contribute to her taking her own life.
Luchang wrote about how she had been struggling for many years; I certainly didn't recognize that at the time, but I also know first-hand of the importance that many of those who suffer from mental illness place upon completely isolating those issues from their rest of their life. Mental health issues are incredibly stigmatized, and it is far too common that those who suffer from mental illness suffer in private while simultaneously working to ensure that close friends and family remain unaware. The NIH estimates that around 8-9% of adults younger than 50 suffer from major depression, and around 20% of adults younger than 50 suffer from some sort of mental illness. For those persons who aren't included in those statistics, there's a very good chance that some (or many) of your friends, family members, or colleagues suffer from mental illness, even if they display no such symptoms around you. The easiest way to help others live with mental illness is simply to continue to build, reinforce, and maintain friendships with people you care about. Mental illnesses tend to make people feel incredibly isolated and afraid; even the smallest aspects of a good friendship can make a huge difference in someone's life.

Max Pilcher

Two memories and a statement:
Memory number 1: my sophomore year, sitting at Central at about 5:00 on a cold snowy day waiting to go home. You were supposed to get your decision from Yale that day. Your pure excitement when you got the letter of acceptance might have been the happiest I've ever seen another person. I'm pretty sure you hugged everyone around you.
Memory number 2: still sophomore year, school was almost over. A group of us was waiting at central for something or another like we always did. However instead of just sitting in the lobby doing nothing we decided to explore the sub basements of Central as well as go to the roof of Campus. We had a blast.
While I may not have known you as well as others, what I remember was one of the coolest, most interesting, smartest people I've ever met.
And a statement: to anyone who may be depressed or considering suicide, don't suffer in silence. Either reach out to friends or contact the national suicide hotline. People care for you. I'm always here to lend a helping ear if necessary and I will talk to anyone.
Rest in Peace Luchang.

Joseph Obrycki

 Jumping on tables to write math on windows. Luchang Wang

Lucy Korsakov

I love you and I miss you. Thank you for being my friend. You will always be loved and remembered 

Sukriti Mohan

Oh Luchang, you sweet girl, I am so blessed to have gotten to know you over the past year. Thank you for being there when classes were stressing me out, when the SoCo presidency results came out, and when I needed someone to lean on. You were loving and dependable, and we will miss you more than you could have ever imagined.
Let us pray for Luchang's family, suitemates and friends, and community.

Alex Feldstein

I really don't know what to say. You left us too soon. I hope you are at peace now.

Sara Katherine Kang

Luchang, you were brilliant, funny, and an all-around awesome human being. The world is better for having had you in it. I hope you're in a better place now, one where you don't have to suffer any longer. Rest in peace.

Kat Perdock

all my love to Luchang and the people who will miss her. i'm so fortunate to have known her for the brief time i did.

 Alick Feng

I know we didn't get to talk as much in the last couple of years, but I remember times from middle school up all the way through high school to just last summer. You were one of the smartest and down to earth people I knew. From Mathcounts carrying our team with Yale to 3rd place to going to science bowl and bringing us to 5th place there, to BSI where we as a group from West Des Moines grew closer. Even in high school, you continued to impress your peers and making many friends along the way. You had such a bright future.You will be missed Luchang. Rest in peace.

Megan Nubel

Rest in peace Luchang, thank you for being such a caring friend.

 Taylor Yocom

Sitting in class and listening the professor's music, the lyrics "we don't understand how fragile we are" made it finally real that Luchang Wang is gone. I'm still struggling with words. She always was a smiling face and had such a welcoming personality when we were friends in high school and I could always count on her to say something absolutely brilliant. Luchang, you were intelligent, humble, and so spirited. The world lost someone brilliant. Rest in peace, and to everyone struggling with depression, please reach out. There is help.

Jonathon Bowyer

Luchang, I already miss you beyond belief. Our late night talks on depression meant the world to me. Walking around campus in the cold after everyone else was long asleep, we'd share tips and tactics to keep ourselves sane and make sure our mental illnesses didn't get the best of us; it pains me to think I wasn't able to provide you with enough hope to make life feel worth it.
I remember how comfortable and at ease we felt talking about an issue that so many are scared to touch. We'd talk about how depression can infiltrate every aspect of our lives - even down to the way you talked and the way I stood - but we didn't let it define us. Each time we talked we'd jokingly yell at each other for our depressed behaviors: me shouting at you to speak up and make yourself heard, and you shouting back to stop slouching and to stand confidently. But then, of course, we'd interrupt ourselves to remind each other to practice DBT radical acceptance and not judge ourselves too harshly - and promptly break out in laughter.
I remember getting through our harder times together. Before break we huddled together outside in the cold rain, reassuring ourselves that we were strong enough to face our toughest triggers. I remember holding each other and giving ourselves talks to remind ourselves that it was ok for us to have feelings, and trying to convince ourselves not to dissociate and become numb. I remember when you were there in my lowest of lows, and I remember being there for yours as well.
I remember how unbelievably happy you made me feel each time you came to me with some success story in our fight against depression: times you forced yourself to speak loudly and confidently when all you wanted to do was mumble, times you made yourself be social when all you wanted to do was isolate, times you stood up for yourself when it was easier to remain quiet. Even in the low points you talked to me about how you were practicing our little tips of the trade: vocalizing your feelings and thoughts (even if just to yourself!), wearing a favorite comfy sweater that made you feel cozy and happy, and practicing mindfulness while eating so as to appreciate smaller things.
I don't quite know how to end this, mainly because I wish our times together didn't have to come to an end. In a way, I don't think they will. I look forward to many more late night walks thinking of you and our talks, and will always cherish the time we spent together. Luchang, I am beyond grateful to have had the opportunity to know you, and hope you knew how much our time together truly meant to me.

Margaret Coons

These extraordinary women were the best part of my senior year, and they will forever be my freshmen. Thank you, Luchang, for the time you gave us. It meant more to us than you can ever know.

Kerrick Staley

The world lost an incredible person yesterday. Luchang Wang was compassionate, intelligent, ambitious, vibrant, bold, gracious, genuine, selfless. Full of life, in an ineffable way. Complex. Beautiful. Her aura left an indelible impression on everyone she met, and she was an inspiration to us all.
For all the happiness she emanated into the world, Luchang wasn't happy with her own life.I can't fully fathom what she was dealing with; I don't have her perspective. And perspective is everything: a problem can be insurmountable or not depending on how it's framed. But finding a viewpoint where, although your problems are still present, you can come to live with them, is hard. 
Luchang: as always when someone dies, the world will try to pick up where you left off, to carry on the essence of your life, to fill in the gaps. In this case, the immense vacuum you left has us all gasping. But we'll try.
I'll miss you, and I love you. We'll all miss you. We all love you.

Kristin Hilton

I'd be lying if I said I wasn't still reeling from this. Whenever I write a letter of recommendation for college I mention that I am among the luckiest of people because I work with the hope of tomorrow every single day. I believe thatLuchang was hope personified. Not only was she brilliant but she was one of the most genuine and truly selfless people I've ever met. She will be deeply missed. To all of our other students--you are never alone. You are loved and we are here. 

 Maria Wu

Thank you for taking me with you to the gym during my anxiety periods. I would have drunk instead, but you made me bench press with you, even though neither of us knew how. We were going to exercise together every Friday this semester. I miss you already.

Ben Garfinkel 

It's unfortunately rare in life to come across someone who is just simply, fundamentally good. Luchang was one of those people. I'm grateful that she was part of our world for as long as she was, because she helped people. And I believe that, in spite of her illness, she managed to see beauty in others and in the world in a way that unfortunately few can.
I'm posting these very weird pictures, taken about a week ago, because somehow in my mind they sum up a lot of what made Luchang special. The backstory is that a friend and I had written a script for a truly stupid comedy video that required a burrito costume. Not knowing how to sew, I asked for her help, and before she had even asked any questions (such as the very reasonable "Why, exactly, are you making this?" or "Couldn't you just use Google?") she dove enthusiastically and joyfully into the project. For some reason, when thinking about Luchang, my thoughts keep coming back to this memory. Only Luchang would ever have agreed to something like this. I truthfully cannot think of a single other person I've met in my entire life--who takes enough joy in the unusual and in every opportunity to be of even the smallest help to others--to excitedly drop everything for a few hours and make someone else a burrito costume, without a question asked. Really, honestly, who but Luchang could that ever be said of? I don't know if I'm ever going to meet someone like that again.
This a weird memory to share, probably much less poignant or important than the other truly moving memories being shared on this page, but somehow I think it's appropriately weird. Luchang was a weird, wonderful, thoughtful, brilliant, genuinely loving person. I'm so glad that she existed.

David Mwirichia

Pain and depression hide in the deepest of places and suicide strikes the hardest and most unexpected blow. I just want to extend my deepest condolences to her friends and family. You were honestly one of the smartest people I had the pleasure to meet and work with at Central Academy. R.I.P Luchang.... I honestly don't know what else to say..

Alexandra Torresquintero

You were a beautiful human being, and I am so sad we didn't spend more time together. You will be remembered

Šimon Podhajský

The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Rest in peace, Luchang.

Sandy Cloe 

Oh sweet girl. We thought the world of you.

Jared Giunta

We sat next to each other in AP Theory....we laughed a lot. I didn't know you that well, but I knew we shared some great experiences together. Whatever was haunting you isn't anymore, and I hope that brings you peace. I'll miss you.

Sae-hoon Park

I still remember the day I first met with Luchang Wang in the YEA meeting. She was inspirational, brilliant and generous friend to all of us. Now I regret not having been able to spend more time with her. My deepest condolences to her family.

Ruchita Pendse

Luchang, I am tremendously grateful to have had the chance to reconnect with you a few weeks ago after years of having lost touch. It was just luck that my post on Facebook happened to catch your eye, which led to an hours long skype call that began with standard life updates, but quickly became a rare and deep conversation about our common interest in effective altruism and about our passions and aspirations. I remember thinking about that call afterwards, musing about how two randomly assigned roommates from debate camp five years ago ended up with so much in common; I just wish I had discovered that earlier. I so wanted to make our idea for a Yale EA – Penn GWWC event happen, if only to finally see you again, and to continue a conversation I thought, I wish, we were just beginning.
You were passionate about making the world a better place, and I hope you knew that even in your painfully short time here, you did exactly that. Rest in peace.

Sarah Liu

Luchang, you left too early, it doesn't seem real. I miss your brightness.

Brian Reece

"When one person is missing the whole world seems empty."

Honda Wang

Yale University has confirmed that Luchang Wang passed away today—too soon at only 20 years old. She was a member of the debate community, and she was certainly one of the smartest people I could say I knew. My heart dropped when I read her most recent Facebook post, indicating that she would take her own life.
She wrote that she had these thoughts for a long time, and that she made her choice already. I certainly didn't recognize those signs in her when we were at debate tournaments or when we were talking after graduation, but depression is often masked too effectively by those who suffer from it. You are not alone, and you are loved by those around you.

Tammy Pham

Luchang, you are in our hearts and our minds. We will keep you alive by finishing what you have not accomplished and making the world a better place, as you would have wanted.
3:56 pm Thank you to everyone who went out searching today. It is at least comforting to know that we can rally such a strong force when the time comes. Crossing fingers, praying, waiting for better news.

Aaron Gertler

Luchang Wang was a loyal friend and a good human being. That's all I'm going to say, for now.
But if you and need someone to talk to after today's events, my door is open. Message me.

